Cloud changelog - June 29th release (#6474)
mattermost/docs: source/install/cloud-changelog.md

Latest Mattermost Cloud releases:

- [Release 2023-06-29](#release-2023-06-29)
- [Release 2023-06-13](#release-2023-06-13)
- [Release 2023-05-31](#release-2023-05-31)
- [Release 2023-05-01](#release-2023-05-01)
- [Release 2023-04-21](#release-2023-04-21)
- [Release 2023-03-29](#release-2023-03-29)

## Release 2023-06-29

### Improvements

#### User Interface (UI)
 - Added support to specify different desktop notification sounds per channel.
 - Calls: Ringing sounds can be enabled/disabled and selected in the Desktop Notifications preferences panel.
 - Bumped the pre-packaged version of NPS to 1.3.2.
 - Apps Bar is now enabled by default for on-prem servers. See more details at:
    - https://docs.mattermost.com/welcome/what-changed-in-v70.html#apps-bar-beta
    - https://forum.mattermost.com/t/channel-header-plugin-changes/13551

#### Administration
 - Boards has been moved from a product back to a plugin. Removed ``EnablePublicSharedBoards`` Boards product setting from the config and the **System Console**.

>  - Playbooks is again shipped as a prepackaged plugin, with version 1.36.1.

Author: Monorepo was shipped in April 21st cloud release https://docs.mattermost.com/install/cloud-changelog.html#release-2023-04-21.
I'm planning to adjust the wording for monorepo for the v8.0 changelog.

Latest Mattermost Cloud releases:

- [Release 2023-06-29](#release-2023-06-29)
- [Release 2023-06-13](#release-2023-06-13)
- [Release 2023-05-31](#release-2023-05-31)
- [Release 2023-05-01](#release-2023-05-01)
- [Release 2023-04-21](#release-2023-04-21)
- [Release 2023-03-29](#release-2023-03-29)

## Release 2023-06-29

### Improvements

#### User Interface (UI)
 - Added support to specify different desktop notification sounds per channel.
 - Calls: Ringing sounds can be enabled/disabled and selected in the Desktop Notifications preferences panel.
 - Bumped the pre-packaged version of NPS to 1.3.2.
 - Apps Bar is now enabled by default for on-prem servers. ``ExperimentalSettings.EnableAppBar`` was also renamed to ``ExperimentalSettings.DisableAppBar``. See more details at:

>     - https://docs.mattermost.com/welcome/what-changed-in-v70.html#apps-bar-beta

Reviewer: Note: This URL doesn't exist yet, but will once I create a PR for this update.

    - https://forum.mattermost.com/t/channel-header-plugin-changes/13551

#### Administration

>  - Boards has been moved from a product back to a plugin. Removed ``EnablePublicSharedBoards`` Boards product setting from the config and the **System Console**.

Reviewer 2: Boards is still technically prepackaged, but not enabled by default

 - Playbooks is again shipped as a prepackaged plugin, with version 1.36.1.
 - Removed setting the Channel Export and Apps plugins enabled by default.
 - Added a new ``ConfigurationWillBeSaved`` plugin hook which is invoked before the configuration object is committed to the backing store.
 - Insights has been disabled for all new instances and for existing servers that upgrade to v8.0. The Insights feature flag can be enabled with environment variables via `MM_FEATUREFLAGS_INSIGHTSENABLED=true`.
 - Admins can now specify index names to ignore while purging indexes from Elasticsearch with the ``ElasticsearchSettings.IgnoredPurgeIndexes`` setting.
 - Added an option to use the German HPNS notification proxy.
 - New flags were added to the database migrate command as following:

    - ``auto-recover``: If the migration plan receives an error during migrations, this command will try to rollback migrations already applied within the plan. This option is not recommended to be added without reviewing migration plan. You can review the plan by combining ``--save-plan`` and ``--dry-run`` flags.

>     - ``save-plan``: The plan for the migration will be saved into the file store so that it can be used for reviewing the plan or to be used for downgrading

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - ``save-plan``: The plan for the migration will be saved into the file store so that it can be used for reviewing the plan or to be used for downgrading.
```

    - ``dry-run``: Does not apply the migrations, but it validates how the migration would run with the given conditions.

 - A new database subcommand "downgrade" was added to be able to rollback database migrations. The command either requires an update plan to rollback, or comma separated version numbers.
 - Removed ``/api/v4/users/stats`` network request from ``InviteMembersButton``.

### API Changes
 - A ``context.Context`` is now passed to ``Client4`` methods.
 - Changed the Go module path from ``github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server/server/v8`` to ``github.com/mattermost/mattermost/server/v8``. For the public facing module, it's path is also changed from ``github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server/server/public`` to ``github.com/mattermost/mattermost/server/public``.

### Bug Fixes
 - Fixed the **New Messages** line overlapping date lines in the post list.
 - Fixed an issue where post reactions disappeared when the search sidebar was open.

>  - Fixed an issue with broken "medical_symbol", "male_sign" and "female_sign" emojis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Fixed an issue with broken "medical_symbol", "male_sign", and "female_sign" emojis.
```

 - Fixed a panic where a JSON null value was passed as a channel update.

>  - Fixed an issue where the draft counter badge remained in case of a deleted parent post and its subsequent removal.

Reviewer: Please review my proposed update to ensure it expresses the intended message.

Latest Mattermost Cloud releases:

- [Release 2023-06-29](#release-2023-06-29)
- [Release 2023-06-13](#release-2023-06-13)
- [Release 2023-05-31](#release-2023-05-31)
- [Release 2023-05-01](#release-2023-05-01)
- [Release 2023-04-21](#release-2023-04-21)
- [Release 2023-03-29](#release-2023-03-29)

## Release 2023-06-29

### Highlights
 - Insights has been disabled for all new instances and for existing servers that upgrade to v8.0. The Insights feature flag can be enabled with environment variables via `MM_FEATUREFLAGS_INSIGHTSENABLED=true`. See more details in [this forum post](https://forum.mattermost.com/t/proposal-to-revise-our-insights-feature-due-to-known-performance-issues/16212) on why Insights has been disabled.

>  - Boards has been moved from a product back to a plugin and is now disabled by default. ``EnablePublicSharedBoards`` Boards product setting was removed from the config and the **System Console**.

Reviewer 3: @esethna Can you confirm if "and is now disabled by default" is for all instances or for new installs only? Thank you.

Reviewer 3: @amyblais Was the monorepo shipped in a previous versions? I don't see that it was and the change log references boards and playbooks as "pre-packaged". I see the note in 7.10 about  "Playbooks and Boards will be core parts of the product that cannot be disabled." 

I am wondering for the change log if we adjust that sentence or add a note to the 8.0 that that previous decision was changed?

Reviewer 3: That would mean that we could adjust the first part of this sentence.

Author: @wiersgallak Monorepo was shipped in April 21st cloud release https://docs.mattermost.com/install/cloud-changelog.html#release-2023-04-21.
I'm planning to adjust the wording for monorepo for the v8.0 changelog.

Reviewer 3: @amyblais after confirming the behavior with Team ABC, added a suggestion below. 
```suggestion
 - Boards has been moved from part of the core product back to a plugin. If you previously had the plugin disabled, it will be disabled now, even if you enabled it as part of the core product. You can re-enable it from the **System Console > Plugin** settings.  The Boards configuration, ``EnablePublicSharedBoards``, was also removed from the config and the **System Console**.
```

 - Admins can now specify index names to ignore while purging indexes from Elasticsearch with the ``ElasticsearchSettings.IgnoredPurgeIndexes`` setting.
 - Added an option to use the German HPNS notification proxy.
 - New flags were added to the database migrate command as following:

    - ``auto-recover``: If the migration plan receives an error during migrations, this command will try to rollback migrations already applied within the plan. This option is not recommended to be added without reviewing migration plan. You can review the plan by combining ``--save-plan`` and ``--dry-run`` flags.
    - ``save-plan``: The plan for the migration will be saved into the file store so that it can be used for reviewing the plan or to be used for downgrading.
    - ``dry-run``: Does not apply the migrations, but it validates how the migration would run with the given conditions.

 - A new database subcommand "downgrade" was added to be able to rollback database migrations. The command either requires an update plan to rollback, or comma separated version numbers.
 - Removed ``/api/v4/users/stats`` network request from ``InviteMembersButton``.

> ### API Changes
>  - A ``context.Context`` is now passed to ``Client4`` methods.
>  - Changed the Go module path from ``github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server/server/v8`` to ``github.com/mattermost/mattermost/server/v8``. For the public facing module, it's path is also changed from ``github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server/server/public`` to ``github.com/mattermost/mattermost/server/public``.

Reviewer 4: I'd propose we announce the submodule a bit more concretely as well:
```suggestion
### API Changes
 - Introduce the [public](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost/tree/master/server/public) submodule, housing the familiar `model` and `plugin` packages, but now discretely versioned from the server. It is no longer necessary to `go get` a particular commit hash, as Go programs and plugins can now opt-in to importing `github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server/server/public` and managing versions idiomatically. While this submodule has not yet shipped a v1 and will introduce breaking changes before stabilizing the API, it remains both forwards and backwards compatible with the Mattermost server itself.
  - In the main `server package`, the Go module path has changed from ``github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server/server/v8`` to ``github.com/mattermost/mattermost/server/v8``. But with the introduction of the `public` submodule, it should no longer be necessary for third-party code to import this `server` package.
 - As part of the `public` submodule above, a ``context.Context`` is now passed to ``model.Client4`` methods.
```

 - Bumped the pre-packaged version of NPS to 1.3.2.

#### Administration
 - Playbooks is again shipped as a prepackaged plugin, with version 1.36.1.
 - Added a new ``ConfigurationWillBeSaved`` plugin hook which is invoked before the configuration object is committed to the backing store.
 - Admins can now specify index names to ignore while purging indexes from Elasticsearch with the ``ElasticsearchSettings.IgnoredPurgeIndexes`` setting.
 - Added an option to use the German HPNS notification proxy.
 - New flags were added to the database migrate command as following:

    - ``auto-recover``: If the migration plan receives an error during migrations, this command will try to rollback migrations already applied within the plan. This option is not recommended to be added without reviewing migration plan. You can review the plan by combining ``--save-plan`` and ``--dry-run`` flags.
    - ``save-plan``: The plan for the migration will be saved into the file store so that it can be used for reviewing the plan or to be used for downgrading.
    - ``dry-run``: Does not apply the migrations, but it validates how the migration would run with the given conditions.

>  - A new database subcommand "downgrade" was added to be able to rollback database migrations. The command either requires an update plan to rollback, or comma separated version numbers.

Reviewer 5: isn't this too abstract? should we point any documentation somewhere as an example?

Reviewer: The docs update PR is here: https://github.com/mattermost/docs/pull/6491

When this PR is merged:

- the updated db migrate flags documentation will live here: ``manage/command-line-tools.html#mattermost-db-migrate``

- and the new subcommand docs page will be: ``manage/command-line-tools.html#mattermost-db-downgrade``

 - Removed ``/api/v4/users/stats`` network request from ``InviteMembersButton``.

### API Changes
 - Introduce the [public](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost/tree/master/server/public) submodule, housing the familiar `model` and `plugin` packages, but now discretely versioned from the server. It is no longer necessary to `go get` a particular commit hash, as Go programs and plugins can now opt-in to importing `github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server/server/public` and managing versions idiomatically. While this submodule has not yet shipped a v1 and will introduce breaking changes before stabilizing the API, it remains both forwards and backwards compatible with the Mattermost server itself.

>   - In the main `server package`, the Go module path has changed from ``github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server/server/v8`` to ``github.com/mattermost/mattermost/server/v8``. But with the introduction of the `public` submodule, it should no longer be necessary for third-party code to import this `server` package.

Reviewer 5: isn't this a breaking change @lieut-data ? Should we make maybe an engineering blog for this?

Reviewer 4: @spirosoik, no, I don't consider this a breaking change, as it requires opt-in on the part of the developer:
a) Go tools and plugins compiling against the existing `v6/` (or even `v5/`) will continue to work without modification. Most of our own plugins are still doing this.
b) Even after switching to `v8/`, the underlying REST and RPC API isn't changing, so there's no effect to semantics, etc.

> Should we make maybe an engineering blog for this?

I admit I'm not convinced we should invest in our engineering blog as it currently stands. Happy to chat more about this or find another way to improve visibility.
